last updated: 2015-08-14

This is Ensata's writing guide made to assist in translating Tree of Savior to English.

As of the time last updated, an official writing style guide does not exist, or is inadequate.

------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

* Code Tags
	Anything inside semicolons ( { & } ) is read as a special code tag by the game.
	The tag '%s' is used for inserting dynamic words.
		Do not modify or delete these unless you know what you're doing.

* Line Breaks
	The {nl} tag will manually create a line break.
	Add a space before it for readability.
	Don't add a space after, unless you want to indent the text.
	Some UI elements have automatic word wrap.
		For this reason, {nl} should not be used to split sentences in half.

	
* Language
	US English should be used. 
	British English nouns might be used on a limited level for names.


* Lore
	This game has elements inspired by Lithuanian Mythology.
		Do not confuse this with the Baltic myth family, including Latvian myth.
	Some names will be a direct myth reference. Check the translation glossaries and perform research.

	
* NPC Names
	To retain flavor, check for Lithuanian variants of a name and try to use that spelling.
	As alternatives, check for Latvian, Polish, and Russian names.
		Do this only if the pronunciation is the same.
	Do not 'Americanize' the names.
	
	
* Font and Rendering
	As of the time last updated, the game uses the font "Quattrocento Bold".
	To check for available characters and to download a copy, go here:
		https://www.google.com/fonts/specimen/Quattrocento
		
	
* Punctuation
	Avoid non-English alphabet and romanise foreign words. ie. Doppelsöldner -> Doppelsoeldner

	Ellipses should be done according to personal style, either as three-periods or the Unicode character.
		A single-character Unicode ellipsis ( … ) is entered by typing Alt+0133
		Don't randomly interfere with other people's ellipses unless you're actually working on that line.
		Rendering or standardisation issues can be dealt with when it comes up.
	
	Quotation markers should be done with the proper Unicode open/close symbols -( “ ” )
		Autocorrect can deal with this, if you are using spreadsheet software.
		Using the neutral quotation markers ( " ) can cause rendering and import/export issues for some editors.
	
	
* Glossary & Keywords
	Keep the translation glossary beside you while you are editing. 
		(ie. the wiki reference, or personal files such as Keyword_notes.tsv and mapnames.tsv)
	
	When an important-looking word is found, consult the glossary on its information and usage.
		Keywords may include, but are not limited to: NPC Names, Events, Locations, Monsters, Items.
		It may already be listed if there is a translation or synonym problem.
		
	Any keywords that are newly found or changed must be reported and explained for addition to the glossary.	
	
	Keyword entries should typically include a note or definition for context.
	

* Translation
	Do not use Google Translate, or any other machine translator, unless you know what you're doing.
		If you want to ask why, you probably don't know what you're doing.
		If you think it's okay to set it to "Korean -> English", you do not know what you're doing.
		If you think it's okay to set it to "Korean -> Japanese -> English", you do not know what you're doing.
		
	Do not use Google Translate.

	
* Understanding Korean loanwords
	The Korean text contains loanwords from other languages, including Lithuanian, 
	and forces it into the Korean alphabet. 
	Here is a list of merged consonants in the Korean language.

	L and R can't be distinguished. Most people know this one as a stereotype.
	P and F 
	J and Z
	K and G if it's in the middle of a word
	V and B
	W does not exist, and might appear as OA or OE or something.
	
	You can quickly get the romanisation by punching it into Google Translate.
	
	